So we've been throwing around words
like AJAX and API throughout this section,
but before we move on, let's just take a second
to understand what these terms actually mean.
So AJAX stands for Asynchronous Javascript And XML.
And basically, it allows us to asynchronously
communicate with remote servers.
So let's say we have our JavaScript app running
in the browser, which is called the client.
And we want the app to get some data from our server.
But of course, without having to reload the entire page.
Well, with AJAX we can do a simple get HTTP request,
to our server, which will then send back a response
containing the data that we requested.
And this all happens asynchronously in the background
just the way we learned before.
Also, of course, this not only works for getting data
from the server, but also to send data to the server
by doing a post request rather than a get request.
Now, in practice, there are many ways in which
we can do AJAX in Javascript.
And we're gonna look at the fetch web API
in the next lecture, which will allow us
to make some AJAX calls in a very easy way.
Alright, and since we were talking about servers,
we also have to talk about APIs.
So, API stands for Application Programming Interface
and on a very high level, it's basically a piece of software
that can be used by another piece of software
in order to basically allow applications
to talk to each other.
And that's not just valid for web development in Javascript,
but for programming in general, okay?
But now, in reference to web development and AJAX
and servers, well, the API is not the server itself,
but it's like a part of the server.
Like an application that receives requests
and sends back responses.
So let's distinguish between two types of APIs
that you can use in Javascript.
Which are your own APIs or external, third-party APIs.
So let's imagine for a second,
that you're building a traveling app.
And you have the database with different destinations
and tours that you're offering.
So on your server, you could build your own API
that can receive requests from your front end app
in Javascript and send back the results.
So that would be your own API hosted on your own server.
But now, you also need some current weather information
for each destination, which you don't have in your database.
And so you can use a third party API
to get that weather data, okay?
That makes sense, right?
And there are actually all kinds of
third party APIs out there.
Like to include Google Maps into your app,
or to embed YouTube videos to get data about movies,
or even to send emails or text messages from the Venmo app.
There are really endless possibilities and that's why APIs
are getting so popular in web development, okay?
So, these are the very fundamentals about AJAX and APIs,
but it's all you need to know in order to get started.
So let's move on now, and use some AJAX in practice.